---
title: "New Leads, Same Old Mission"
date: 2026-03-09
layout: post
---
We've got a pair of new leads since the last newsletter, but of course the mission remains the same. And that mission is to engage, activate, motivate, and organize more people into taking a more active stance in fighting against the authoritarian backsliding our country is going through, and preserving this country's liberal democratic values. That description is something I stole from someone else on the server (sorry don't remember who lol), but I really liked the way it was described so putting it here as an apt description of what we do.

---

# **🧭 General Server Updates**

### **💰 New Fundraising Lead**

We now officially have a fundraising lead in Artemis (from California!). Ever since we officially became a 501(c)(4) I've been excited about fundraising specifically so excited to see what Artemis helps to build out there.

---

### **🎥 New Media Team Director**

The media team also has a new Director in Blair.

He’ll be working closely with the current media leads in Pendulum and our very own Art (From WA!)

Blair was heavily involved in canvassing efforts during the 2024 cycle, but after the election loss he understandably felt pretty demoralized and stepped back from politics.

However, as things have just continued to escalate crazier and crazier, and after some persistent nudging from Bryce and other directors, he decided to come back into the fold.

Part of his reasoning is one many of us can probably relate to which is that doing something about the country feels a lot better than just dooming about it.

---

### **🧠 Fighting the Doomer Pipeline**

Related to that theme, the media team is also looking to build an “anti-blackpill pipeline.”

A moderator on the subreddit recently noticed an uptick in doomer-type comments, and reached out to Foilage about ways we might help respond to those conversations.

Right now the idea is simple where instead of letting pessimism spread unchecked, respond by redirecting people towards the work our org is doing. We want to show people that political engagement isn't pointless, and that there are communities like ours actively trying to improve things.
    

---

### **📱 TikTok Lead Needed**

The media team is also looking for a TikTok lead who:
- Understands current meme trends
- Can translate messaging into short-form content
- Wants to help experiment with reaching audiences where they actually are
    
If that sounds like your wheelhouse, reach out to the media team.

---

### **🎤 Debate Night Updates**

Debate nights have moved to a new time: Saturdays at 3PM Pacific (so that our international friends can more easily participate)

The last one had strong attendance, and included Foodshops in the audience, which was pretty cool.

The events team is currently looking for a debate clipper who can pull highlight moments from the debates.

---

### **🎓 Upcoming Workshops**

Two workshops are currently in development:

**Civics 101 Workshop**
- Still being scheduled

**Getting a Job in Politics Workshop**
- Focused on helping people understand entry paths into political careers
- Also still being scheduled

Stay tuned!

---

### **📚 Research Team Projects**

The Talking Points Repository is currently looking for **DOGE researchers**.

The research team also has now completed about 50% of races for Phase 2 of their research for the Midterms Project, which will be crucial for identifying priority targets heading into the cycle.

---

# **📣 Weekly CTA**

As always, our server-wide CTAs live on the Digital Ground Game website. This weeks is an easy one. Help make sure people know that Trump pressed the "increase gas prices" button.
👉 https://digitalgroundgame.org/blog/cta-repository-6/make-trump-own-the-price-of-gas-21

Also please check out this CTA to help out Mr Beat in petitioning to expand the house.
👉 https://digitalgroundgame.org/blog/cta-repository-6/expand-the-house-19

---

# **🌊 West Region Updates**

### **📰 Regional Pages Coming to the Website**

Going forward, there’s a good chance the next edition of this newsletter will be published directly on the Digital Ground Game site, and if not the next, the definitely the one after.

This came up after Jacob spoke with a Congressional staffer who was checking out the website and mentioned that they still weren’t totally sure what the different regions actually do and pointed out that the regional pages were mostly empty.

So Innami and I will be working on:
- Adding examples of past projects
- Documenting events and meetups
- Publishing articles from this newsletter directly on the site and linking to them in the region page.

If anyone has suggestions for what else we should include on the page, definitely send them our way.

Innami and I also had a long discussion with Sam/Flow, our server's Organizing Director, about broader plans and goals we hope to accomplish, so we'll definitely will be trying to ramp up more events, and work on increasing even more engagement. If any of you have input on things you think we should implement also send them our way!

---

### 🧪 Shoutouts

We didn’t have a new regional CTA this week, but want to shoutout **Brandon | CO** for coming up with a CTA last time.

He put together a very detailed write-up on the FDA and fluoride policy, along with a CTA encouraging people to submit public comments before the FDA deadline regarding fluoride recommendations.

It's a great example of how people can bring policy knowledge into the server and turn it into something actionable.

Also want to shoutout Omar for giving away a free ticket to 12trillionIq to a book signing event from the Mogger in Chief, Gavin Newsom. I think that show of generosity is pretty awesome, and I hope we can all pay it forward as well.

---

### 🗳️ State Delegates

Finally, want to highlight some members who recently were confirmed to become state delegates in Washington:
- Glamberous
- Rafi
- Teddy
- Nick
- Jack Broome
- The Sham
- Innami

This ties directly into the other CTA from our last newsletter last time encouraging people to look into becoming PCOs or state delegates. 

These roles are one of the highest “bang for your buck” ways to gain influence inside the party, and we encourage people to look into them. Check out last week's edition of the newsletter to learn more!

---

#  🌊 More WA Stuff

And of course last but not least, Here is Rafi's latest batch of Washington News:

# Washington News 2026 week 4

# [Budget bills in WA Legislature would tap rainy day fund, spend heavily on legal payouts](https://washingtonstatestandard.com/2026/02/22/budget-bills-in-wa-legislature-would-tap-rainy-day-fund-spend-heavily-on-legal-payouts/) [Feb 22, 2026] 

- Democrats in the Washington Legislature on Sunday proposed tapping the state's rainy day savings account and slashing hundreds of millions of dollars for a child program for low-income families to balance the state's budget into next year. Under their plans, the state's main operating account would have a more than $900 million deficit in the first year of the upcoming budget cycle, which begins July 1, 2027. Majority democrats in the House and Senate pitched a pair of supplemental budget blueprints that lawmakers will consider before the legislative session ends March 12, a deadline now less than three weeks away.
- Senate Democrats' plan for the current two-year budget involves funneling about $1 billion toward skyrocketing legal payouts. The House plan provides roughly $400 million for these costs. Both chambers call for pulling $700 million from the rainy day fund. Neither follows Gov. Bob Ferguson’s proposal to use nearly $600 million from the state’s cap-and-trade program to pay for tax rebates that go to low- and middle-income households. The House would send $300 million from the carbon auctions to the rebates, and more than $200 million to the state's construction budget. The Senate doesn't redirect any of the climate funding to the tax credits. In the House plan, the shifted climate dollars would later be replaced using surplus money from a pension account for police and firefighters. The Senate's $79.3 billion two-year plan is nearly $1.5 billion larger than the roughly $77.8 billion in operating budget spending that lawmakers and Ferguson approved last spring. The House plan checks in with around $79.2 billion of proposed spending.
- The biggest category of new spending in the budget is for the rising lawsuit payouts. These cases often involve claims of government misconduct that date back decades. Many of them stem from the state’s child welfare system.“If we weren’t paying for the tort liability costs, we actually wouldn’t be spending more,” Robinson said. House Republicans’ budget lead blasted the proposals, saying Democrats in Olympia have a “spending addiction. In the middle of another predictable multi-billion-dollar deficit, Democrats chose to spend more than Washington was projected to bring in and grow government by another $2 billion,” Rep. Travis Couture, R-Allyn, said in a statement. “They drained the Rainy-Day Fund, launched an unconstitutional income tax, and raided a pension system — all to avoid making hard decisions.”
- Democrats are trying to pass a 9.9% tax on household income above $1 million. But lawmakers don’t expect revenue from it to flow to the state’s coffers until 2029. Both the House and Senate legislation assume upward of $2 billion in the next two-year budget from the tax. Lawmakers’ proposals don’t include much new revenue in the current budget, which runs to June 30, 2027. But they do take up Ferguson’s ideas for cutting a few tax breaks to raise money.Senate lawmakers could not immediately provide a figure for how much spending they would cut in the current two-year budget, but said their plan included $2.4 billion in savings over four years. Over $800 million of that total was tied to changes to the child care program for low-income residents. The House also suggests cutting spending on the child care program, but by less. House lawmakers pegged their overall spending reductions in the current two-year budget at around $1.1 billion. Robinson noted the Senate proposal also includes cuts to long-term care facilities and a program to transition children into kindergarten. Schools would still receive state support for the transition-to-kindergarten program, but only for students who qualify for free or reduced lunches. Districts would need to come up with their own funding for other children. Both budget proposals are set for committee hearings Monday afternoon, with votes from those panels scheduled Wednesday. Votes from the full chambers are planned to follow on Friday and Saturday, paving the way for negotiations on a final package.
- Read the full article!

# [WA Democrats drop push for business tax to cover Medicaid costs](https://washingtonstatestandard.com/2026/02/23/wa-democrats-drop-push-for-business-tax-to-cover-medicaid-costs/) [Feb 23, 2026] 

- WA state Democrats are likely abandoning plans for a new tax on employers like Walmart and Amazon, whose workers get health coverage through Medicaid, The proposal comes after Federal cuts to the program by National Republicans, the program provides insurance for low-income Americans. The Senate committee was set to vote on advancing the legislation last week, but ultimately declines to take action. “I think it’s safe to say that that bill, at least on the Senate side, is not going to move this year,” said Senate Ways and Means Committee Chair June Robinson, D-Everett. Senate Democrats’ leading tax policy voice said it was simply too complicated to pass in a short, 60-day legislative session. “There is a lot of momentum there, but it’s fairly technical to get it done, and I just don’t think we had the time or bandwidth to finish out that conversation this session,” said Sen. Noel Frame, D-Seattle.
- Under [Senate Bill 6173](https://app.leg.wa.gov/billsummary?BillNumber=6173&Year=2025&Initiative=false), the state would've required companies with 100 employees to foot the bill for workers with taxpayer-funded coverage. This would have reportedly cost employers over $600 per month per staffer. Critics said the tax could disincentivize hiring people with disabilities, who are more likely to be enrolled in Medicaid, and that the bill doesn’t take into account workers declining employer-sponsored insurance. Businesses believed it would add to their tax burden after the Legislature passed a suite of levies last year focused on them.
- The tax wouldn’t have taken effect until the federal work requirements go into force, so it wouldn’t have played into lawmakers’ current budget plans. It was projected to bring in over $950 million starting in the 2027-29 fiscal cycle, rising to nearly $1.6 billion in the next biennium, according to an initial fiscal analysis. Amazon and Walmart lead the pack of employers whose workers get coverage through Apple Health, according to a [state Health Care Authority report](https://www.hca.wa.gov/assets/program/employment-status-ah-clients-leg-report-2024.pdf) from 2024. As of April 2024, nearly 7,500 Walmart workers and dependents were enrolled in Medicaid, costing about $28 million per year. Amazon had about 8,100 employees and dependents to the tune of $30 million annually. Other companies high on the list include McDonald’s, Kroger, DoorDash, Uber and Cerberus Capital Management, which owns Albertsons. In total, annual Medicaid spending on employed Apple Health enrollees and their dependents is roughly $2.3 billion, according to the state data. Companies take issue with the data, noting it’s self-reported and some of the workers are part-time.
- Nearly 2 million Washingtonians are enrolled in Apple Health (I used to be! great program!), with over 600,000 of them covered through the expansion of Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act. This subset is the population the tax would cover. Washington has made progress in reducing its rate of residents without insurance in recent years. “We don’t want that to go backwards,” Senate Majority Leader Jamie Pedersen told reporters last week. “So I think it’s very much a conversation that we’re interested in having.”
- This isn’t the only idea lawmakers have floated to raise money for health coverage. Another bill would impose a new assessment on insurers to fund abortion services. That [idea](https://app.leg.wa.gov/billsummary/?BillNumber=6182&Chamber=Senate&Year=2025), which awaits a vote from the full Senate, would raise about $10 million for the current budget, according to a fiscal analysis. Another proposal would roll back a business and occupation tax break for some insurers, which would bring in an estimated $56 million for this budget, and less in future years. The [House version of this bill](https://app.leg.wa.gov/billsummary/?BillNumber=2487&Chamber=House&Year=2025) is teed up for a floor vote, while the Senate Ways and Means Committee advanced [its chamber’s iteration](https://app.leg.wa.gov/billsummary?BillNumber=5949&Year=2025&Initiative=false) Thursday. This proposal, also floated by Gov. Bob Ferguson, was included in House and Senate Democrats’ budget plans released Sunday.

# [No cops hired so far with WA's new $100M grant program](https://washingtonstatestandard.com/2026/02/24/no-cops-hired-so-far-with-was-new-100m-grant-program/) [Feb 24, 2026] 

- County and city officials are frustrated with the roll out of the $100 million grant program championed by Gov. Bob Ferguson to address WA dead last status in the nation in police staffing per capita. They complain it has been slow and rife with technical issues. “Is it concerning to cities across the state that nobody has received money from this new law yet?” said Derrick Nunnally, government relations advocate at the Association of Washington Cities. “Yes, absolutely.” The first round of applications is open through the end of March. The Criminal Justice Training Commission expects to decide on awards within weeks of that deadline. So far only six police departments have applied. The commission plans to host several rounds of grant applications.
- There have always been concerns about the program. Local governments argued it would be hard to bring on officers with temporary state dollar, leaving departments on the hook for salaries and benefits once the well runs dry. Agencies have to spend the money by mid-2028, that's why lawmakers added a requirement for cities and counties to impose a new 0.1% sales tax, or have an existing sales tax focused on funding public safety. The idea being that this would allow the county or city to have some long-term funding after the grant expires, but, for many jurisdictions, that tax won't bring in enough and many do not want to levy a new tax. The Seattle City Council, on the other hand, has approved the tax, and expects it to bring in $39 million this year.
- The money can be used for more than hiring officers, it can go toward training and broader public safety efforts, like mental health crisis respondents, emergency management planning and community assistance programs. Adding these other uses was key to winning over skeptical progressives who don't think more cops is the way to improve public safety. Democrats had to find some compromise, as Ferguson last year vowed to veto a state budget that didn’t include the $100 million grant program.
- Complaints over bureaucracy and qualifications have been common acknowledged by Gail Stone, project director working on the grant program at the state training commission. “Getting through the verification process is a very heavy lift." So far, seven of the state’s 39 counties have taken the first step to try to pass the new sales tax. All but one are in western Washington. About two dozen cities have started the process. Washington has roughly 280 cities. Most cities and counties already get money from one of the existing taxes that would qualify as a prerequisite for the grants. Last month, the Criminal Justice Training Commission rolled out a new online portal for potential grant applicants. It’s gotten better reviews from local officials.

# [More Bills knocked out of running in WA Legislature](https://washingtonstatestandard.com/2026/03/03/more-bills-knocked-out-of-running-in-wa-legislature/) [March 3, 2026] 

- We're in the final days of the legislative session of 2026. More bills died as they failed to get out of committees in the chamber opposite where they were introduced, The rest of this week will be filled with floor action in the House or Senate, as bills have to pass the chambers by 5 p.m. Friday. Budget legislation and measures considered “necessary to implement the budget” are immune from the deadlines. The session ends March 12
- Some of the bills that failed to pass this week were: [Senate Bill 5360](https://app.leg.wa.gov/BillSummary/?BillNumber=5360&Year=2025&Initiative=false) which would have created a new, tiered system of punishments for violations of the Clean Air Act, Water Pollution Control Act and Hazardous Management Act. [Senate Bill 5280](https://app.leg.wa.gov/BillSummary/?BillNumber=5280&Year=2025&Initiative=false) which would've added a new $2,000 daily transaction limit and implement new disclosure requirements to help protect consumers for, this bill would target cryptocurrency kiosk that scammers have used to defraud people. [Senate Bill 5838](https://app.leg.wa.gov/billsummary?BillNumber=5838&Year=2025&Initiative=False) would have added two tribal members to the six-person Board of Natural Resources, critics argued that because tribes are not beneficiaries of state trusts, tribal members could be more likely to vote against timber sales. Supporters pointed out that the state could learn from Native American land management practices, the bill passed the Senate but dies in the House Committee on Agriculture and Natural Resources.
- Quite a lot of bills died this session, so I encourage all of you to read them, what they do and support the ones you like on the next Legislative session!