---
title: "Turning Anger into Action"
date: 2026-01-26
layout: post
---

Before anything else, want to acknowledge the horrific ICE shooting of another U.S. citizen Saturday morning. And once again, the Trump administration is lying through their teeth telling you not to believe what you saw, and smearing the good name of Alex Pretti, an ICU nurse for the VA, with bald faced lies. 

This is a man who's described by colleagues as deeply committed to the veterans he cared for. A man who friends and family describe as kind, humorous, and hardworking. Someone whose mother wanted to make absolutely clear that he was a man who loved this country, but hated to see what was happening to it. 

A man who lost his life for coming to the aid of a woman being pushed around by the very same ICE cowards who later beat him down before murdering him by shooting him in the back while he was defenseless.

If you’re feeling upset or fired up, channel that energy into doing what you can to push back. Volunteer, join a protest, and make sure people in your life understand what's going on: The government now thinks it can have federal agents just murder US citizens in broad daylight without any accountability. They're trying to block investigations and control the narrative, despite all the overwhelming evidence contradicting their claims. We cannot allow this to pass.

---

# 💙 Quick Shoutout

On the positive side huge appreciation to Art and the media team. So many of them stepped up right away and turned their anger into action. They basically spent all Saturday and Sunday grinding through media requests to create graphics and videos for folks to share across social media. Seriously clutch work. If you have clips or ideas, send them their way!

---

# 🔁 Last Week’s Meeting Recap

- Jacob (elendacil) has taken on the role of CTA lead. 
	- He'll be coordinating the server wide CTAs as well as helping shape regional CTAs. 
	- If you have ideas for any CTAs to have our region do, make sure to reach out to him.
	- Don't forget to do this week's CTA of contacting your Senator to say NO to more ICE funding. Instructions [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1akR0xuoksUsibYeZcN4_U12MCZb5MYzy1nXpIGr8X0U/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.6otzwr42qct8)
- Big welcome to new city organizers:
	- Cain (koalabananas) will be joining Rafi (pottati) as a Seattle City Organizer
		- Wasn't discussed during the meeting but want to shoutout that he was fundraising for MSF (Doctors Without Borders) last week to help offset the global aid gaps from USAID cuts
	- KC (ghostlybacon7) Will be our first Bay Area City Organizer
		- Also want to shout him out for taking initiative to have an extra [West Coast CTA](https://discord.com/channels/1345532745463496717/1377752182253686876/1465173996239716497) to subscribe to the socials for Digital Ground Game to support the media team and our org in general
		- Links here:
			- [Instagram](https://discord.com/channels/1345532745463496717/1377752182253686876/1465173996239716497)
			- [Twitter](https://discord.com/channels/1345532745463496717/1377752182253686876/1465173996239716497)
			- [Bluesky](https://discord.com/channels/1345532745463496717/1377752182253686876/1465173996239716497)
	- We're still looking to have more City Organizers so if you want to be a point person for your city, make sure to reach out to me, Innami, or Ky!
- **Sam (flowtrace) visiting LA (30th–31st)**
    - Sam is going to be networking and fundraising with potential donors
    - He's still looking for a couch/place to crash (can get a hotel if needed, but free is nice obviously)
    - If timing works, Omar (jekylly) and I may host an LA meetup while he’s here but that's TBD. We'll have a better idea tomorrow.
- **Spring Hackathon**
    - This is more of a serverwide thing but called attention to a spring hackathon in the works
    - Should be fun as people will be split into teams to compete in a streamed event
    - Will likely be featuring Radiant and YuniDev as casters (I actually don't know who these people are but I think they comment on esports)
    - If you're interested reach out to Foilage (ihaveeatenfoliage)


---

# 🛠️ General Server Updates

Some quick team updates from the general server. Also just as an FYI, there are leadership meetings 1pm every Sunday that are open for everyone to listen in on where you can get these updates more in depth!
### 🎨 Media
- Still pumping out a ton of content
- Lots of new leads stepping up for specific areas: Influencer Lead - tribot455, Memes Lead - Heysus, Graphics Lead - Kale, Short Video Lead - PedanticPanda, Long Video Lead - PedanticPanda, Streaming Lead - Xavier, Voice Recording Lead, Podcast Lead - Fieldstone, Interview Lead - Javi (youtube)
- If you have video clips with timestamps, send them to PedanticPanda!
### 🔬 Research
- Midterm race report coming by the end of month
- Creating a research doc about the Minnesota National Guard
- They will be unfreezing recruitment of new members next week
### 💻 Dev
- Digital Ground Game site coming soon
- A placeholder/boilerplate site is already deployed at https://digitalgroundgame.org/ 
### 📞 Phonebanks
- We had a ton of phonebanking events this past week.
- Want to give a regional shoutout in particular to Marlow for her phonebanking event
	- We called voters in her own local county in Oregon to oppose TPUSA entering local schools
	- Voters were informed about a counter protest hosted by Coos County Democrats near where TPUSA was hosting an event
	- While it's understandable to have our attention focused on national politics, local action like this is important too.

---

# 👋 Welcome (Again)

Also I keep saying this every week, but we’ve had another wave of a lot new members join. Probably getting repetitive, but I don't mind highlighting the growth every week!

To all the new members, if Saturday's news infuriated you, let's turn that anger into something useful. Whether you want to do a little or a lot, we’re glad you’re here. Every little bit helps. Check out [last week's post](https://purplecrowndev.github.io/west-region-dispatch/posts/2026-01-19/) that has a primer for new members if you're looking to get more involved!
